---
layout: default
title: Navigating the Challenges
nav_order: 6
---

# Navigating the Challenges: How ChatGPT Presents Unique Hurdles for Content Designers

As said before, the quest for excellence never ends for content designers. We are continuously exploring ways to refine our content creation process and striving to deliver high-quality content that captivates our audience. While ChatGPT can be a powerful tool for achieving these goals, it also presents unique challenges that content designers must navigate. We'll delve into some of the challenges that ChatGPT poses for content designers and discover how we can overcome them.

## Understanding the Model's Limitations

Biggest limitation of ChatGPT is that its knowledge cutoff was in September 2021, which limits the chat when it comes to providing up-to-date and reliable informations. ChatGPT does not have the ability to fact-check or verify the accuracy of the information it generates. Its responses are generated based on patterns and examples it has learned from. What’s more, ChatGPT does not have the capability to provide direct links to external sources. Its responses are generated solely based on its training data and do not involve retrieving or browsing the internet. Also, as an automated system, ChatGPT lacks the human intuition and judgment that content designers possess.

{: .warning }
It is crucial to exercise caution when relying on ChatGPT for information, as the tool **may occasionally produce misrepresent facts or produce falsehoods**. Identifying incorrect answers can be challenging given the seamless and persuasive nature of its outputs. Consider using Google for checking informations, but also be cautious with Google results and what site you use as a verified source of information; please **don’t believe everything the chat generates**.

## Ensuring Quality Control

It's important to make sure that the generated content is still of high-quality and aligned with one's brand's messaging and tone. It can produce irrelevant, inaccurate, or inappropriate content that requires close monitoring and editing. Content designers must carefully review the content generated by ChatGPT and make necessary edits to ensure that it meets their quality standards. This can be a time-consuming process that requires careful attention to detail, but it's essential for maintaining the integrity of the brand's content.

{: .note }
On that note, it’s good to point out that in the field of artificial intelligence, a phenomenon known as **hallucination** or **artificial hallucination** refers to a confident response from an AI that appears to lack justification based on its training data. This means that the AI may provide answers or information that go beyond what it has been specifically trained on, potentially resulting in fake, inaccurate or unfounded responses.

## Managing Bias and Ethics

ChatGPT is trained on a massive amount of text data, which can sometimes include biased or unethical content and this, in turn, can harm the reputation of a brand and alienate the audience. It is important to remember that the chat is trained on data which was originally created by humans. What’s more, people responsible for training model have their own beliefs and value system which can also reflect on the output generated by ChatGPT. Best example is shown in the article [“ChatGPT’s ‘liberal’ bias allows hate speech toward GOP, men: research”](https://nypost.com/2023/03/14/chatgpts-bias-allows-hate-speech-toward-gop-men-report/), where ChatGPT asked to write same article in 2 different styles first refuses, but in second doesn’t see any ethical issues.

As content designers we must be aware of these risks and take steps to mitigate them for e.g. carefully researching generated output. One should never rely solely on ChatGPT when making important decisions. Also simply, use your common sense.
